README.md, before:

# python-and-kafka-lp-author
**Repository for liveProject: Python and Kafka**


## 1st Delivery 

* Create the sample_project python project
* Create a virtual environment 
* Install poetry 
* Add the "requests" python package
* scrap manning.com website to get the html code 

## 2nd Delivery 

### Start testing and interacting with Kafka running in the Docker container on your computer

**1. You need to launch the containers using docker-compose :**

```docker
$ docker-compose --file docker-compose.yml up --detach
```

**2. Open 02 CLI :**

>Run the following command in the first CLI to send messages
```docker 
docker-compose exec -it kafka kafka-console-consumer.sh --consumer.config /opt/bitnami/kafka/config/consumer.properties --bootstrap-server kafka:9092 --topic test --from-beginning
```
>Then run the following command in the second CLI to receive messages  
```docker 
docker-compose exec -it kafka kafka-console-producer.sh --producer.config /opt/bitnami/kafka/config/producer.properties --bootstrap-server 127.0.0.1:9094 --topic test
```

Commit message:

3rd delivery : working with postgres database

README.md, after:

# python-and-kafka-lp-author
**Repository for liveProject: Python and Kafka**


## 1st Delivery 

## Using python for the first time

* Create the sample_project python project
* Create a virtual environment 
* Install poetry 
* Add the "requests" python package
* scrap manning.com website to get the html code 

## 2nd Delivery 

### Start testing and interacting with Kafka running in the Docker container on your computer

**1. You need to launch the containers using docker-compose :**

```docker
$ docker-compose --file docker-compose.yml up --detach
```

**2. Open 02 CLI :**

>Run the following command in the first CLI to send messages
```docker 
docker-compose exec -it kafka kafka-console-consumer.sh --consumer.config /opt/bitnami/kafka/config/consumer.properties --bootstrap-server kafka:9092 --topic test --from-beginning
```
>Then run the following command in the second CLI to receive messages  
```docker 
docker-compose exec -it kafka kafka-console-producer.sh --producer.config /opt/bitnami/kafka/config/producer.properties --bootstrap-server 127.0.0.1:9094 --topic test
```

## 3rd Delivery 

### Working with a Postgres Database

The deliverable for this milestone is a docker-compose file consisting of three running containers: Kafka, Zookeeper, and Postgres
When running :
```docker
docker-compose --file ./docker-compose.yml up --detach 
```
The service postgresql automaticaly restore the pagila database, you can then verify this database with the following commands :

1. Log in to the postgresql database service   : 
```docker
docker-compose exec -it postgresql psql -U postgres
```
2. List the database :
```sql
postgres>\l
```
3. Connect to the database **pagila**
```sql
postgres>\connect pagila
```
4. You are free to run some queries : 
```sql
postgres>select * from actor limit 10;
```
